Asmc Macro Assembler Reference

# Asmc Error Messages

The error messages generated by Asmc components fall into three categories:

*   [**Fatal errors (A1000-A1901):**](#asmc-fatal-error-messages)
    These indicate a severe problem that prevents the utility from completing its normal process.

*   [**Nonfatal errors (A2000-A3021):**](#asmc-nonfatal-error-messages)
    The utility may complete its process. If it does, its result is not likely to be the one you want.

*   [**Warnings (A4000-A8020):**](#asmc-warnings-messages)
    These messages indicate conditions that may prevent you from getting the results you want.

## Asmc Fatal Error Messages

- [A1000](#asmc-fatal-error-a1000) cannot open file : _filename_
- [A1001](#asmc-fatal-error-a1001) I/O error closing file : _filename_
- [A1002](#asmc-fatal-error-a1002) I/O error writing file : _filename_
- [A1005](#asmc-fatal-error-a1005) assembler limit : macro parameter name table full
- [A1006](#asmc-fatal-error-a1006) invalid command-line option: _option_
- [A1007](#asmc-fatal-error-a1007) nesting level too deep
- [A1008](#asmc-fatal-error-a1008) unmatched macro nesting
- [A1009](#asmc-fatal-error-a1009) line too long
- [A1010](#asmc-fatal-error-a1010) unmatched block nesting:
- [A1011](#asmc-fatal-error-a1011) directive must be in control block
- [A1012](#asmc-fatal-error-a1012) error count exceeds 100; stopping assembly
- [A1017](#asmc-fatal-error-a1017) missing source filename
- [A1901](#asmc-fatal-error-a1901) Internal Assembler Error


## ASMC Nonfatal Error Messages

_ML compatible errors_

- [ML Nonfatal Error A2004](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2004)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2005](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2005)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2006](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2006)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2007](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2007)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2008](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2008)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2009](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2009)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2010](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2010)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2011](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2011)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2012](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2012)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2013](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2013)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2014](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2014)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2015](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2015)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2016](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2016)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2018](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2018)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2019](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2019)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2022](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2022)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2023](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2023)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2024](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2024)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2025](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2025)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2026](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2026)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2028](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2028)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2029](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2029)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2030](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2030)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2031](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2031)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2032](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2032)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2033](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2033)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2034](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2034)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2036](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2036)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2037](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2037)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2039](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2039)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2041](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2041)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2043](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2043)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2045](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2045)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2046](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2046)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2047](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2047)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2048](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2048)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2050](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2050)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2051](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2051)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2052](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2052)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2053](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2053)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2054](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2054)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2055](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2055)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2056](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2056)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2057](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2057)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2058](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2058)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2059](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2059)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2060](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2060)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2061](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2061)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2062](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2062)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2063](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2063)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2064](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2064)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2065](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2065)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2066](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2066)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2068](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2068)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2070](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2070)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2071](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2071)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2072](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2072)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2074](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2074)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2075](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2075)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2076](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2076)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2077](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2077)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2079](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2079)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2080](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2080)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2081](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2081)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2082](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2082)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2083](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2083)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2084](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2084)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2085](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2085)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2086](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2086)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2087](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2087)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2088](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2088)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2089](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2089)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2090](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2090)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2091](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2091)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2092](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2092)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2093](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2093)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2094](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2094)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2095](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2095)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2096](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2096)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2097](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2097)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2098](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2098)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2100](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2100)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2101](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2101)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2103](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2103)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2104](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2104)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2105](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2105)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2107](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2107)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2108](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2108)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2110](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2110)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2111](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2111)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2112](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2112)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2113](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2113)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2114](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2114)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2119](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2119)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2120](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2120)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2121](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2121)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2123](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2123)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2125](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2125)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2129](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2129)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2131](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2131)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2132](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2132)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2133](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2133)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2136](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2136)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2141](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2141)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2142](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2142)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2143](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2143)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2144](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2144)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2145](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2145)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2147](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2147)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2148](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2148)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2151](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2151)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2154](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2154)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2156](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2156)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2157](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2157)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2159](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2159)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2166](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2166)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2167](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2167)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2169](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2169)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2170](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2170)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2172](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2172)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2175](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2175)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2178](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2178)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2179](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2179)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2181](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2181)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2187](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2187)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2189](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2189)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2190](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2190)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2199](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2199)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2200](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2200)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2202](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2202)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2206](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2206)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2214](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2214)
- [ML Nonfatal Error A2217](#asmc-nonfatal-error-a2217)

_Non ML compatible errors_

- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3000](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3000)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3001](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3001)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3002](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3002)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3003](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3003)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3004](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3004)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3005](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3005)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3006](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3006)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3007](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3007)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3008](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3008)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3009](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3009)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3010](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3010)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3011](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3011)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3012](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3012)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3013](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3013)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3014](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3014)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3015](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3015)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3016](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3016)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3017](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3017)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3018](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3018)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3019](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3019)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3020](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3020)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3021](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3021)
- [ASMC Nonfatal Error A3022](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A3022)


## ASMC Warning Messages

_ML compatible warnings_

- [ML Warning A4003](#asmc-warning-A4003)
- [ML Warning A4005](#asmc-warning-A4005)
- [ML Warning A4006](#asmc-warning-A4006)
- [ML Warning A4007](#asmc-warning-A4007)
- [ML Warning A4008](#asmc-warning-A4008)
- [ML Warning A4011](#asmc-warning-A4011)
- [ML Warning A4012](#asmc-warning-A4012)
- [ML Warning A4910](#asmc-warning-A4910)

_ML compatible level 3 warnings_

- [ML Warning A6003](#asmc-warning-A6003)
- [ML Warning A6004](#asmc-warning-A6004)
- [ML Warning A6005](#asmc-warning-A6005)

_Non ML compatible warnings_

- [ASMC Warning A8000](#asmc-warning-A8000)
- [ASMC Warning A8001](#asmc-warning-A8001)
- [ASMC Warning A8002](#asmc-warning-A8002)
- [ASMC Warning A8003](#asmc-warning-A8003)
- [ASMC Warning A8004](#asmc-warning-A8004)
- [ASMC Warning A8005](#asmc-warning-A8005)
- [ASMC Warning A8006](#asmc-warning-A8006)
- [ASMC Warning A8007](#asmc-warning-A8007)
- [ASMC Warning A8008](#asmc-warning-A8008)
- [ASMC Warning A8009](#asmc-warning-A8009)
- [ASMC Warning A8010](#asmc-warning-A8010)
- [ASMC Warning A8011](#asmc-warning-A8011)
- [ASMC Warning A8012](#asmc-warning-A8012)
- [ASMC Warning A8013](#asmc-warning-A8013)
- [ASMC Warning A8014](#asmc-warning-A8014)
- [ASMC Warning A8015](#asmc-warning-A8015)
- [ASMC Warning A8017](#asmc-warning-A8017)
- [ASMC Warning A8018](#asmc-warning-A8018)
- [ASMC Warning A8019](#asmc-warning-A8019)
- [ASMC Warning A8020](#asmc-warning-A8020)

_Non ML compatible level 3 warnings_

- [ASMC Warning A7000](#asmc-warning-A7000)
- [ASMC Warning A7001](#asmc-warning-A7001)
- [ASMC Warning A7002](#asmc-warning-A7002)
- [ASMC Warning A7003](#asmc-warning-A7003)
- [ASMC Warning A7004](#asmc-warning-A7004)
- [ASMC Warning A7005](#asmc-warning-A7005)
- [ASMC Warning A7006](#asmc-warning-A7006)
- [ASMC Warning A7007](#asmc-warning-A7007)
- [ASMC Warning A7008](#asmc-warning-A7008)


### ASMC Fatal Error A1000

cannot open file : _filename_

*   The file does not exist.
*   The file is in use by another process.
*   The filename is not valid.
*   A read-only file with the output filename already exists.
*   The current drive is full.
*   The current directory is the root and is full.
*   The device cannot be written to.
*   The drive is not ready.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1001

I/O error closing file

*   The operating system returned an error when the assembler attempted to close a file.
*   This error can be caused by having a corrupt file system or by removing a disk before the file could be closed.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1002

I/O error writing file

The assembler was unable to write to an output file. One of the following may be a cause:

*   The current drive is full.
*   The current directory is the root and is full.
*   The device cannot be written to.
*   The drive is not ready.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1005

Assembler limit : macro parameter name table full

Too many parameters, locals, or macro labels were defined for a macro. There was no more room in the macro name table.

Define shorter or fewer names, or remove unnecessary macros.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1006

Invalid command-line option: _option_

ASMC did not recognize the given parameter as an option. This error is generally caused when there is a syntax error on the command line.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1007

Nesting level too deep

The assembler reached its nesting limit. The limit is 20 levels except where noted otherwise.

One of the following was nested too deeply:

*   A high-level directive such as .IF, .REPEAT, or .WHILE
*   A structure definition
*   A conditional-assembly directive
*   A procedure definition
*   A PUSHCONTEXT directive (the limit is 10).
*   A segment definition
*   An include file
*   A macro


### ASMC Fatal Error A1008

Unmatched macro nesting

Either a macro was not terminated before the end of the file, or the terminating directive ENDM was found outside of a macro block. One cause of this error is omission of the dot before .REPEAT or .WHILE.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1009

Line too long

This error should not occure in Asmc.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1010

Unmatched block nesting :

A block beginning did not have a matching end, or a block end did not have a matching beginning. One of the following may be involved:

*   A high-level directive such as .IF, .REPEAT, or .WHILE
*   A conditional-assembly directive such as IF, REPEAT, or WHILE
*   A structure or union definition
*   A procedure definition
*   A segment definition
*   A POPCONTEXT directive
*   A conditional-assembly directive, such as an ELSE, ELSEIF, or ENDIF without a matching IF


### ASMC Fatal Error A1011

Directive must be in control block

The assembler found a high-level directive where one was not expected. One of the following directives was found:

*   .ELSE without .IF
*   .ENDIF without .IF
*   .ENDW without .WHILE
*   .UNTIL[[CXZ]] without .REPEAT
*   .CONTINUE without .WHILE or .REPEAT
*   .BREAK without .WHILE or .REPEAT
*   .ELSE following .ELSE


### ASMC Fatal Error A1012

Error count exceeds 100; stopping assembly

The number of nonfatal errors exceeded the assembler limit of 100. Nonfatal errors are in the range A2xxx. When warnings are treated as errors they are included in the count. Warnings are considered errors if you use the /Wx command-line option, or if you set the Warnings Treated as Errors option in the Macro Assembler Global Options dialog box of PWB.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1017

Missing source filename

ASMC could not find a file to assemble or pass to the linker.

This error is generated when you give ASMC command-line options without specifying a filename to act upon. To assemble files that do not have a .ASM extension, use the /Ta command-line option.

This error can also be generated by invoking ASMC with no parameters if the ASMC environment variable contains command-line options.


### ASMC Fatal Error A1901

Internal Assembler Error

Asmc generated a system error.



### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2004

Symbol type conflict : identifier

The EXTERNDEF or LABEL directive was used on a variable, symbol, data structure, or label that was defined in the same module but with a different type.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2005

Symbol redefinition : identifier

The given nonredefinable symbol was defined in two places.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2006

Undefined symbol : identifier

An attempt was made to use a symbol that was not defined. One of the following may have occurred:

*   A symbol was not defined.
*   A field was not a member of the specified structure.
*   A symbol was defined in an include file that was not included.
*   An external symbol was used without an EXTERN or EXTERNDEF directive.
*   A symbol name was misspelled.
*   A local code label was referenced outside of its scope.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2007

Non-benign record redefinition

A RECORD definition conflicted with a previous definition. One of the following occurred:

*   There were different numbers of fields.
*   There were different numbers of bits in a field.
*   There was a different label.
*   There were different initializers.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2008

syntax error :

A token at the current location caused a syntax error. One of the following may have occurred:

*   A dot prefix was added to or omitted from a directive.
*   A reserved word (such as C or SIZE) was used as an identifier.
*   An instruction was used that was not available with the current processor or coprocessor selection.
*   A comparison run-time operator (such as ==) was used in a conditional assembly statement instead of a relational operator (such as EQ).
*   An instruction or directive was given too few operands.
*   An obsolete directive was used.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2009

syntax error in expression

An expression on the current line contained a syntax error. This error message may also be a side-effect of a preceding program error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2010

invalid type expression

The operand to THIS or PTR was not a valid type expression.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2011

distance invalid for word size of current segment

A procedure definition or a code label defined with LABEL specified an address size that was incompatible with the current segment size. One of the following occurred:

*   A NEAR16 or FAR16 procedure was defined in a 32-bit segment.
*   A NEAR32 or FAR32 procedure was defined in a 16-bit segment.
*   A code label defined with LABEL specified FAR16 or NEAR16 in a 32-bit segment.
*   A code label defined with LABEL specified FAR32 or NEAR32 in a 16-bit segment.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2012

PROC, MACRO, or macro repeat directive must precede LOCAL

A LOCAL directive must be immediately preceded by a MACRO, PROC, macro repeat directive (such as REPEAT, WHILE, or FOR), or another LOCAL directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2013

.MODEL must precede this directive

A simplified segment directive or a .STARTUP or .EXIT directive was not preceded by a .MODEL directive. A .MODEL directive must specify the model defaults before a simplified segment directive, or a .STARTUP or .EXIT directive may be used.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2014

cannot define as public or external : identifier

Only labels, procedures, and numeric equates can be made public or external using PUBLIC, EXTERN, or EXTERNDEF. Local code labels cannot be made public.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2015

segment attributes cannot change : attribute

A segment was reopened with different attributes than it was opened with originally.

When a SEGMENT directive opens a previously defined segment, the newly opened segment inherits the attributes the segment was defined with.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2016

expression expected

The assembler expected an expression at the current location but found one of the following:

*   A unary operator without an operand
*   A binary operator without two operands
*   An empty pair of parentheses, ( ), or brackets, [ ]


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2018

invalid use of external symbol : identifier

An attempt was made to compare the given external symbol using a relational operator.

The comparison cannot be made because the value or address of an external symbol is not known at assembly time.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2019

operand must be RECORD type or field

The operand following the WIDTH or MASK operator was not valid. The WIDTH operator takes an operand that is the name of a field or a record. The MASK operator takes an operand that is the name of a field or a record type.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2022

instruction operands must be the same size

The operands to an instruction did not have the same size.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2023

instruction operand must have size

At least one of the operands to an instruction must have a known size.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2024

invalid operand size for instruction

The size of an operand was not valid.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2025

operands must be in same segment

Relocatable operands used with a relational or minus operator were not located in the same segment.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2026

constant expected

The assembler expected a constant expression at the current location. A constant expression is a numeric expression that can be resolved at assembly time.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2028

expression must be a code address

An expression evaluating to a code address was expected. One of the following occurred:

*   SHORT was not followed by a code address.
*   NEAR PTR or FAR PTR was applied to something that was not a code address.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2029

multiple base registers not allowed

An attempt was made to combine two base registers in a memory expression.

For example, the following expressions cause this error:

    [bx+bp]
    [bx][bp]

In another example, given the following definition:

    id1 proc arg1:byte

either of the following lines causes this error:

    mov al, [bx].arg1
    lea ax, arg1[bx]


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2030

multiple index registers not allowed

An attempt was made to combine two index registers in a memory expression.

For example, the following expressions cause this error:

    [si+di]
    [di][si]


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2031

must be index or base register

An attempt was made to use a register that was not a base or index register in a memory expression.

For example, the following expressions cause this error:

    [ax]
    [bl]


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2032

invalid use of register

An attempt was made to use a register that was not valid for the intended use. One of the following occurred:

*   OFFSET was applied to a register. (OFFSET can be applied to a register under the M510 option.)
*   A special 386 register was used in an invalid context.
*   A register was cast with PTR to a type of invalid size.
*   A register was specified as the right operand of a segment override operator (:).
*   A register was specified as the right operand of a binary minus operator ( – ).
*   An attempt was made to multiply registers using the * operator.
*   Brackets ([ ]) were missing around a register that was added to something.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2033

invalid INVOKE argument : argument number

The INVOKE directive was passed a special 386 register, or a register pair containing a byte register or special 386 register. These registers are illegal with INVOKE.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2034

must be in segment block

One of the following was found outside of a segment block:

*   An instruction
*   A label definition
*   A THIS operator
*   A $ operator
*   A procedure definition
*   An ALIGN directive
*   An ORG directive


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2036

too many initial values for structure: structure

The given structure was defined with more initializers than the number of fields in the type declaration of the structure.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2037

statement not allowed inside structure definition

A structure definition contained an invalid statement. A structure cannot contain instructions, labels, procedures, control-flow directives, .STARTUP, or .EXIT.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2039

line too long

This error should not occure in Asmc.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2041

string or text literal too long

A string or text literal, or a macro function return value, exceeded the limit of 255 characters.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2043

identifier too long

An identifier exceeded the limit of 247 characters.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2045

missing angle bracket or brace in literal

An unmatched angle bracket (either < or >) or brace (either { or }) was found in a literal constant or an initializer. One of the following occurred:

*   A pair of angle brackets or braces was not complete.
*   An angle bracket was intended to be literal, but it was not preceded by an exclamation point (!) to indicate a literal character.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2046

missing single or double quotation mark in string

An unmatched quotation mark (either ' or ") was found in a string. One of the following may have occurred:

*   A pair of quotation marks around a string was not complete.
*   A pair of quotation marks around a string was formed of one single and one double quotation mark.
*   A single or double quotation mark was intended to be literal, but the surrounding quotation marks were the same kind as the literal one.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2047

empty (null) string

A string consisted of a delimiting pair of quotation marks and no characters within.

For a string to be valid, it must contain 1-255 characters.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2048

nondigit in number

A number contained a character that was not in the set of characters used by the current radix (base).

This error can occur if a B or D radix specifier is used when the default radix is one that includes that letter as a valid digit.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2050

real or BCD number not allowed

A floating-point (real) number or binary coded decimal (BCD) constant was used other than as a data initializer.

One of the following occurred:

*   A real number or a BCD was used in an expression.
*   A real number was used to initialize a directive other than DWORD, QWORD, or TBYTE.
*   A BCD was used to initialize a directive other than TBYTE.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2051

text item required

A literal constant or text macro was expected.

One of the following was expected:

*   A literal constant, which is text enclosed in < >
*   A text macro name
*   A macro function call
*   A 0.000000 followed by a constant expression


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2052

forced error

The conditional-error directive .ERR or .ERR1 was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2053

forced error : value equal to 0

The conditional-error directive .ERRE was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2054

forced error : value not equal to 0

The conditional-error directive .ERRNZ was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2055

forced error : symbol not defined

The conditional-error directive .ERRNDEF was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2056

forced error : symbol defined

The conditional-error directive .ERRDEF was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2057

forced error : string blank.

The conditional-error directive .ERRNB was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2058

forced error : string not blank

The conditional-error directive .ERRNB was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2059

forced error : strings equal

The conditional-error directive .ERRIDN or .ERRIDNI was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2060

forced error : strings not equal

The conditional-error directive .ERRDIF or .ERRDIFI was used to generate this error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2061

[[[ELSE]]]IF2/.ERR2 not allowed : single-pass assembler

A directive for a two-pass assembler was found.

The Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM) is a one-pass assembler. MASM does not accept the IF2, ELSEIF2, and .ERR2 directives. This error also occurs if an ELSE directive follows an IF1 directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2062

expression too complex for .UNTILCXZ

An expression used in the condition that follows .UNTILCXZ was too complex. The .UNTILCXZ directive can take only one expression, which can contain only == or !=. It cannot take other comparison operators or more complex expressions using operators like ||.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2063

can ALIGN only to power of 2 : expression

The expression specified with the ALIGN directive was invalid. The ALIGN expression must be a power of 2 between 2 and 256, and must be less than or equal to the alignment of the current segment, structure, or union.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2064

structure alignment must be 1, 2, or 4

The alignment specified in a structure definition was invalid.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2065

expected : token

The assembler expected the given token.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2066

incompatible CPU mode and segment size

An attempt was made to open a segment with a USE16, USE32, or FLAT attribute that was not compatible with the specified CPU, or to change to a 16-bit CPU while in a 32bit segment.

The USE32 and FLAT attributes must be preceded by one of the following processor directives: .386, .386C, .386P, .486, or .486P.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2068

instruction prefix not allowed

One of the prefixes REP, REPE, REPNE, or LOCK preceded an instruction for which it was not valid.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2070

invalid instruction operands

One or more operands were not valid for the instruction they were specified with.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2071

initializer too large for specified size

An initializer value was too large for the data area it was initializing.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2072

cannot access symbol in given segment or group: identifier

The given identifier cannot be addressed from the segment or group specified.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2074

cannot access label through segment registers

An attempt was made to access a label through a segment register that was not assumed to its segment or group.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2075

jump destination too far [: by 'n' bytes]

The destination specified with a jump instruction was too far from the instruction. One of the following may be a solution:

*   Enable the LJMP option.
*   Remove the SHORT operator. If SHORT has forced a jump that is too far, n is the number of bytes out of range.
*   Rearrange code so that the jump is no longer out of range.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2076

jump destination must specify a label

A direct jumps' destination must be relative to a code label.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2077

instruction does not allow NEAR indirect addressing

A conditional jump or loop cannot take a memory operand. It must be given a relative address or label.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2079

instruction does not allow FAR direct addressing

A conditional jump or loop cannot be to a different segment or group.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2080

jump distance not possible in current CPU mode

A distance was specified with a jump instruction that was incompatible with the current processor mode.

For example, 48-bit jumps require .386 or above.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2081

missing operand after unary operator

An operator required an operand, but no operand followed.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2082

cannot mix 16- and 32-bit registers

An address expression contained both 16- and 32-bit registers. For example, the following expression causes this error:

    [bx+edi]


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2083

invalid scale value

A register scale was specified that was not 1, 2, 4, or 8.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2084

constant value too large

A constant was specified that was too big for the context in which it was used.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2085

instruction or register not accepted in current CPU mode

An attempt was made to use an instruction, register, or keyword that was not valid for the current processor mode.

For example, 32-bit registers require .386 or above. Control registers such as CR0 require privileged mode .386P or above. This error will also be generated for the NEAR32, FAR32, and FLAT keywords, which require .386 or above.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2086

reserved word expected

One or more items in the list specified with a NOKEYWORD option were not recognized as reserved words.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2087

instruction form requires 80386/486

An instruction was used that was not compatible with the current processor mode.

One of the following processor directives must precede the instruction: .386, .386C, .386P, .486, or .486P.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2088

END directive required at end of file

The assembler reached the end of the main source file and did not find an .END directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2089

too many bits in RECORD : identifier

One of the following occurred:

*   Too many bits were defined for the given record field.
*   Too many total bits were defined for the given record.
*   The size limit for a record or a field in a record is 16 bits when doing 16-bit arithmetic or 32 bits when doing 32-bit arithmetic.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2090

positive value expected

A positive value was not found in one of the following situations:

*   The starting position specified for SUBSTR or @SubStr
*   The number of data objects specified for COMM
*   The element size specified for COMM


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2091

index value past end of string

An index value exceeded the length of the string it referred to when used with INSTR, SUBSTR, @InStr, or @SubStr.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2092

count must be positive or zero

The operand specified to the SUBSTR directive, @SubStr macro function, SHL operator, SHR operator, or DUP operator was negative.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2093

count value too large

The length argument specified for SUBSTR or @SubStr exceeded the length of the specified string.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2094

operand must be relocatable

An operand was not relative to a label. One of the following occurred:

*   An operand specified with the END directive was not relative to a label.
*   An operand to the SEG operator was not relative to a label.
*   The right operand to the minus operator was relative to a label, but the left operand was not.
*   The operands to a relational operator were either not both integer constants or not both memory operands. Relational operators can take operands that are both addresses or both non-addresses but not one of each.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2095

constant or relocatable label expected

The operand specified must be a constant expression or a memory offset.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2096

segment, group, or segment register expected

A segment or group was expected but was not found. One of the following occurred:

*   The left operand specified with the segment override operator (:) was not a segment register (CS, DS, SS, ES, FS, or GS), group name, segment name, or segment expression.
*   The ASSUME directive was given a segment register without a valid segment address, segment register, group, or the special FLAT group.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2097

segment expected : identifier

The GROUP directive was given an identifier that was not a defined segment.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2098

invalid operand for OFFSET

The expression following the OFFSET operator must be a memory expression or an immediate expression.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2100

segment or group not allowed

An attempt was made to use a segment or group in a way that was not valid. Segments or groups cannot be added.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2101

cannot add two relocatable labels

An attempt was made to add two expressions that were both relative to a label.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2103

segment exceeds 64K limit

A 16-bit segment exceeded the size limit of 64K.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2104

invalid type for data declaration : type

The given type was not valid for a data declaration.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2105

HIGH and LOW require immediate operands

The operand specified with either the HIGH or the LOW operator was not an immediate expression.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2107

cannot have implicit far jump or call to near label

An attempt was made to make an implicit far jump or call to a near label in another segment.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2108

use of register assumed to ERROR

An attempt was made to use a register that had been assumed to ERROR with the ASSUME directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2110

COMMENT delimiter expected

A delimiter character was not specified for a COMMENT directive.

The delimiter character is specified by the first character that is not white space (spaces or TAB characters) after the COMMENT directive. The comment consists of all text following the delimiter until the end of the line containing the next appearance of the delimiter.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2111

conflicting parameter definition

A procedure defined with the PROC directive did not match its prototype as defined with the PROTO directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2112

PROC and prototype calling conventions conflict

A procedure was defined in a prototype (using the PROTO, EXTERNDEF, or EXTERN directive), but the calling convention did not match the corresponding PROC directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2113

invalid radix tag

The specified radix was not a number in the range 2-16.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2114

INVOKE argument type mismatch : argument number

The type of the arguments passed using the INVOKE directive did not match the type of the parameters in the prototype of the procedure being invoked.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2119

language type must be specified

A procedure definition or prototype was not given a language type.

A language type must be declared in each procedure definition or prototype if a default language type is not specified. A default language type is set using either the .MODEL directive, OPTION LANG, or the ASMC command-line options /Gc or /Gd.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2120

PROLOGUE must be macro function

The identifier specified with the OPTION PROLOGUE directive was not recognized as a defined macro function.

The user-defined prologue must be a macro function that returns the number of bytes needed for local variables and any extra space needed for the macro function.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2121

EPILOGUE must be macro procedure

The identifier specified with the OPTION EPILOGUE directive was not recognized as a defined macro procedure. The user-defined epilogue macro cannot return a value.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2123

text macro nesting level too deep

A text macro was nested too deeply. The nesting limit for text macros is 100.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2125

missing macro argument

A required argument to @InStr, @SubStr, or a user-defined macro was not specified.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2129

VARARG parameter must be last parameter

A parameter other than the last one was given the VARARG attribute.

The :VARARG specification can be applied only to the last parameter in a parameter list for macro and procedure definitions and prototypes. You cannot use multiple :VARARG specifications in a macro.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2131

VARARG parameter requires C calling convention

A VARARG parameter was specified in a procedure definition or prototype, but the C, SYSCALL, or STDCALL calling convention was not specified.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2132

ORG needs a constant or local offset

The expression specified with the ORG directive was not valid. ORG requires an immediate expression with no reference to an external label or to a label outside the current segment.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2133

register value overwritten by INVOKE

A register was passed as an argument to a procedure, but the code generated by INVOKE to pass other arguments destroyed the contents of the register.

The AX, AL, AH, EAX, DX, DL, DH, and EDX registers may be used by the assembler to perform data conversion.

Use a different register.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2136

too many arguments to INVOKE

The number of arguments passed using the INVOKE directive exceeded the number of parameters in the prototype for the procedure being invoked.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2141

too many operands to instruction

Too many operands were specified with a string control instruction.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2142

cannot have more than one .ELSE clause per .IF block

The assembler found more than one .ELSE clause within the current .IF block. Use .ELSEIF for all but the last block.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2143

expected data label

The LENGTHOF, SIZEOF, LENGTH, or SIZE operator was applied to a non-data label, or the SIZEOF or SIZE operator was applied to a type.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2144

cannot nest procedures

An attempt was made to nest a procedure containing a parameter, local variable, USES clause, or a statement that generated a new segment or group.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2145

EXPORT must be FAR : procedure

The given procedure was given EXPORT visibility and NEAR distance. All EXPORT procedures must be FAR. The default visibility may have been set with the OPTION PROC:EXPORT statement or the SMALL or COMPACT memory models.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2147

macro label not defined : macrolabel

The given macro label was not found. A macro label is defined with :macrolabel.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2148

invalid symbol type in expression : identifier

The given identifier was used in an expression in which it was not valid. For example, a macro procedure name is not allowed in an expression.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2151

special register cannot be first operand

A special register was specified to an instruction that cannot take it as the first operand.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2154

syntax error in control-flow directive

The condition for a control-flow directive (such as .IF or .WHILE) contained a syntax error.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2156

constant value out of range

An invalid value was specified for the PAGE directive. The first parameter of the PAGE directive can be either 0 or a value in the range 10-255\. The second parameter of the PAGE directive can be either 0 or a value in the range 60-255.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2157

missing right parenthesis

A right parenthesis, ), was missing from a macro function call. Be sure that parentheses are in pairs if nested.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2159

structure cannot be instanced

An attempt was made to create an instance of a structure when there were no fields or data defined in the structure definition or when ORG was used in the structure definition.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2166

structure field expected

The righthand side of a dot operator (.) is not a structure field. This error may occur with some code acceptable to previous versions of the assembler. To enable the old behavior, use OPTION OLDSTRUCTS, which is automatically enabled by OPTION M510 or the /Zm command-line option.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2167

unexpected literal found in expression

A literal was found where an expression was expected. One of the following may have occurred:

*   A literal was used as an initializer
*   A record tag was omitted from a record constant


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2169

divide by zero in expression

An expression contains a divisor whose value is equal to zero.

Check that the syntax of the expression is correct and that the divisor (whether constant or variable) is correctly initialized.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2170

directive must appear inside a macro

A GOTO or EXITM directive was found outside the body of a macro.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2172

too few bits in RECORD

There was an attempt to define a record field of 0 bits.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2175

invalid qualified type

An identifier was encountered in a qualified type that was not a type, structure, record, union, or prototype.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2178

invalid use of FLAT

There was an ambiguous reference to FLAT as a group. This error is generated when there is a reference to FLAT instead of a FLAT subgroup. For example,

    mov ax, FLAT ; Generates A2178
    mov ax, SEG FLAT:_data ; Correct


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2179

structure improperly initialized

There was an error in a structure initializer. One of the following occurred:

*   The initializer is not a valid expression.
*   The initializer is an invalid DUP statement.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2181

initializer must be a string or single item

There was an attempt to initialize a structure element with something other than a single item or string.

This error can be caused by omitting braces ({ }) around an initializer.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2187

must use floating point initializer

A variable declared with the REAL4, REAL8, and REAL10 directives must be initialized with a floating-point number or a question mark (?).

This error can be caused by giving an initializer in integer form (such as 18) instead of in floating-point form (18.0).


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2189

invalid combination with segment alignment

The alignment specified by the ALIGN or EVEN directive was greater than the current segment alignment as specified by the SEGMENT directive.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2190

INVOKE requires prototype for procedure

The INVOKE directive must be preceded by a PROTO statement for the procedure being called. When using INVOKE with an address rather than an explicit procedure name, you must precede the address with a pointer to the prototype.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2199

symbol language attribute conflict

Two declarations for the same symbol have conflicting language attributes (such as C and PASCAL). The attributes should be identical or compatible.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2200

.STARTUP does not work with 32-bit segments

The .STARTUP directive cannot be used in a 32-bit segment; it is valid only when generating 16-bit code.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2202

ORG directive not allowed in unions

The ORG directive is not valid inside a UNION definition.

You can use the ORG directive inside STRUCT definitions, but it is meaningless inside a UNION.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2206

illegal use of segment register

You cannot use segment overrides for the FS or GS segment registers when generating floating-point emulation instructions with the /FPi command-line option or OPTION EMULATOR.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2214

GROUP directive not allowed with /coff option

The GROUP directive is not permitted when compiling with /coff.

See ML and ML64 Command-Line Reference for more information.


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A2217

must be public or external

An alternate symbol was not public or external.

Example

The code sample below would generate A2217 if the line:

    public alternate

were not present.

    .686
    .model  flat

    extrn   primary(alternate):near

    .code

    public  alternate
    alternate:
    ret

    end


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3000

assembly passes reached: passes


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3001

invalid fixup type for :


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3002

/PE option requires FLAT memory model


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3003

/bin: invalid start label


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3005

no segment information to create fixup :


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3006

not supported with current output format:


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3007

missing .ENDPROLOG:


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3008

.ENDPROLOG found before EH directives


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3009

missing FRAME in PROC, no unwind code will be generated


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3010

size of prolog too big, must be < 256 bytes


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3011

too many unwind codes in FRAME procedure


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3012

registers AH-DH may not be used with SPL-DIL or R8-R15


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3013

multiple overrides


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3014

unknown fixup type :: at


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3015

filename parameter must be enclosed in <> or quotes


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3016

literal expected after '='


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3017

.SAFESEH argument must be a PROC


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3018

invalid operand for <id>: <operand>


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3019

invalid fixup type for _format_ : _type_ _symbol_ at location _offset_


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3020

cannot open file: filename


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3021

I/O error closing file


### ASMC Nonfatal Error A3022

.CASE redefinition : identifierA(val): identifierB(val)



### ASMC Warning A4003

start address on END directive ignored with .STARTUP

Both .STARTUP and a program load address (optional with the END directive) were specified. The address specification with the END directive was ignored.


### ASMC Warning A4005

unknown default prologue argument

An unknown argument was passed to the default prologue. The default prologue understands only the FORCEFRAME and LOADDS arguments.


### ASMC Warning A4006

too many arguments in macro call

There were more arguments given in the macro call than there were parameters in the macro definition.


### ASMC Warning A4007

option untranslated, directive required : option

There is no ASMC command-line equivalent for the given option. The desired behavior can be obtained by using a directive in the source file.

        Option Directive
        /A
        /P
        /S
        .ALPHA
        OPTION READONLY
        .SEQ


### ASMC Warning A4008

invalid command-line option value, default is used : option

The value specified with the given option was not valid. The option was ignored, and the default was assumed.


### ASMC Warning A4011

multiple .MODEL directives found : .MODEL ignored

More than one .MODEL directive was found in the current module. Only the first .MODEL statement is used.


### ASMC Warning A4012

line number information for segment without class 'CODE'

There were instructions in a segment that did not have a class name that ends with "CODE." The assembler did not generate CodeView information for these instructions.

CodeView cannot process modules with code in segments with class names that do not end with "CODE."


### ASMC Warning A4910

cannot open file: filename

The given filename could not be in the current path.

Make sure that filename was copied from the distribution disks and is in the current path.


### ASMC Warning A6003

conditional jump lengthened

A conditional jump was encoded as a reverse conditional jump around a near unconditional jump.

You may be able to rearrange code to avoid the longer form.


### ASMC Warning A6004

procedure argument or local not referenced

You passed a procedure argument or created a variable with the LOCAL directive that was not used in the procedure body.

Unnecessary parameters and locals waste code and stack space. _* ML 6.0 compatible level 3 warning (-W3)_


### ASMC Warning A6005

expression condition may be pass-dependent

This warning message may indicate that the code is pass-dependent and should be rewritten.

Example

    mov al,reg

    reg equ <cl>


### ASMC Warning A7000

symbol language attribute conflict

Two declarations for the same symbol have conflicting language attributes (such as C and PASCAL). The attributes should be identical or compatible.

Same as ML Error A2192


### ASMC Warning A7001

positive value expected


### ASMC Warning A7002

register value overwritten by INVOKE


### ASMC Warning A7003

far call is converted to near call


### ASMC Warning A7004

floating-point initializer ignored


### ASMC Warning A7005

directive ignored:


### ASMC Warning A7006

parameter/local name is reserved word:


### ASMC Warning A7007

.CASE without .ENDC: assumed fall through

In case OPTION SWITCH:C is set (default)

    .switch eax
      .case 1 : mov al,1    ; warning
      .case 2 : .endc
    .endsw


### ASMC Warning A7008

cannot delay macro function: _<token>_

Macro that normally would be delayed expanded.

.WHILE _macro_(<...>)
.ELSEIF _macro_(<...>)
.CASE _macro_(<...>)


### ASMC Warning A8000

Invalid command-line option: _option_

ASMC did not recognize the given parameter as an option. This error is generally caused when there is a syntax error on the command line.


### ASMC Warning A8001

See [A2167](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A2167)


### ASMC Warning A8002

See [A2189](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A2189)


### ASMC Warning A8003

See [A2103](#asmc-nonfatal-error-A2103)


## ASMC Warning A8004

See [A2004](A2004.md)

### ASMC Warning A8005

IF[n]DEF expects a plain symbol as argument : _argument_


### ASMC Warning A8006

instructions and initialized data not supported in _segment_ segments


### ASMC Warning A8007

16bit fixup for 32bit label : _label_


### ASMC Warning A8008

displacement out of range: _displacement_


### ASMC Warning A8009

no start label defined


### ASMC Warning A8010

no stack defined


### ASMC Warning A8011

for -coff leading underscore required for start label: _label_


### ASMC Warning A8012

library name is missing


### ASMC Warning A8013

ELF GNU extensions (8/16-bit relocations) used


### ASMC Warning A8014

LOADDS ignored in flat model


### ASMC Warning A8015

directive ignored without -_switch_ switch


### ASMC Warning A8017

ignored: _symbol_


### ASMC Warning A8018

group definition too large, truncated : _group_


### ASMC Warning A8019

size not specified, assuming:

This is a warning. <type> may be BYTE, WORD or DWORD. The message may occur if an immediate value is written to an untyped memory reference:

    mov [ebx], 1

JWasm makes a guess and displays the warning, while ML will display an error in such cases.


### ASMC Warning A8020

constant expected
